- [Instructor] Hi and
welcome back to the course.
In this video we're going to look
at passing functions as parameters.
It is a much more advanced concept
that we can use a lot when
creating nice, readable code,
and also when we want to
generalise code a lot.
We will use it later on in the course,
right now it may look
like it's not very useful,
again, just like the
last stuff we looked at,
but nevertheless the
complete Python refresher
that I want for you has
to cover this stuff.
So, I'm going to create a
method called methodception.
And it's going to take
in a single parameter.
But this parameter is not
something that we can add,
or multiply or print.
It is a method that we're gonna call.
So, add to, numbers, it's
gonna be another method.
And that's gonna return 35 plus 77.
Now, what we can do,
is print methodception of add to numbers.
Now, here's the thing.
Normally, when we call a method,
we would put in opening and
closing brackets at the end.
But in this case, we're
not gonna put them in.
What we're gonna do is
we're gonna pass the method
as a parameter to methodception,
and methodception is
gonna run that method.
So we are not gonna run it here.
It is gonna run up here.
And then that's gonna run,
and return 35 plus 77.
So essentially what we're doing
is we're passing a function, a method,
as a parameter to another method.
If we run this code, we get 112,
which is the sum of 35 and 77,
so this works as you would expect.
Now here's something else that we can do,
which is much more interesting.
We can do something that's
called a lambda function.
A lambda function is
an anonymous function.
So we can do print,
methodception, lambda, 35 plus 77.
So we get the same value back,
but now we are calling,
this function is what we're
passing into methodception,
and then that is running the function.
So this function is exactly
the same as this one,
except it doesn't have a name.
And lambda functions
are always in one line,
so you can't have them multi-line,
so it's always in one line.
Okay, so passing functions to functions,
apart from being some sort
of inception sort of thing,
it's actually really useful.
This is part of a style of
programming, or a paradigm,
called declarative programming
or functional programming,
they're both sort of similar.
And declarative is probably
part of functional programming.
And it's especially useful
when we want to work with data.
For example, let's say we've got a list,
13, 56, 77, 484, something like that.
And then we want to remove
one of those elements.
A way to do it would
be to do something like
my underscore list dot
remove, I think, 13,
and that would remove the element 13.
But, say we wanted to remove
all the elements that are even.
We can no longer do my list dot remove,
56, and then my list, dot remove, 484,
it's starting to get long.
If you have a lot of elements,
that gets really complicated.
So I would not recommend that you do that.
Instead, what you would
do, is you would use
a Python built in method called filter.
And what this method does is it allows you
to keep only some values.
So this method takes in a
function, and also an iterable.
So we're gonna create the function first,
lambda X, X is not 13, and
the iterable is my list.
So we're gonna print this out.
Also remember, as of Python 3.5,
whenever you call the filter function,
you also have to surround it by list
if you want it to come
out in the form of a list.
So what we're doing here is we're saying,
we're gonna filter this list
using this function here.
So, let's run it and see what comes out.
And as you can see, what
comes out is 56, 77, 484.
So basically all of the
numbers that were not 13.
Okay.
To further explain lambda functions,
we can do things like this,
lambda X, X multiplied by three, five.
Here we define a lambda
function with one parameter, X.
And the body of the function
is X multiplied by three.
So think of this function
essentially as def,
and then what we're doing is F5.
These two are identical.
There's no difference between them,
so let this be a bit of food
for thought sort of thing.
What this will print out is 15,
and what this will print
out is 15, it's identical.
You wouldn't normally do this.
You would use lambda
functions more frequently
in things like filter.
Because it makes a bit more sense.
However, we've got here a function
that essentially says not 13,
so we could create that function, not 13.
Return X is not 13.
And then we could replace
that here, not 13.
Okay.
So this is something we can do,
we do not have to use a lambda function.
We can use a normal function if we prefer.
And this works in exactly the same way.
As you can see we get
the same output back.
So what we're doing here is
we're running this function
against this list and
filtering out all those values,
or rather keeping only all those values,
that match this condition.
So we're keeping all the
values that are not 13.
Filter is pretty neat,
and it essentially goes
against list comprehension.
You could do the same thing
with list comprehension.
It would be something like,
print, X for X in my list,
if X is not 13.
So it may be slightly simpler,
and many many Python programmers
would rather use this,
they would rather use
the list comprehension.
However, I mentioned in the
list comprehension lecture,
that list comprehension
is quite unique to Python,
and to a couple other
programming languages.
However, the concept of filter is present
in many programming languages.
So if you programme with
other programming languages,
or you work with people who programme
with other programming languages,
you probably want to stick to filter,
because it is more familiar to people.
The performance is more or less the same.
Or maybe slightly better
for list comprehension.
So if performance is an issue,
then you will want to
investigate which one is better,
and use that accordingly.
But apart from that, it's up
to your preference really,
and the people around you.
In some cases people use filter,
and in others will use list comprehension,
I tend to prefer list comprehensions,
but then I also do a lot
of JavaScript programming
and they don't have list comprehensions,
so we're stuck with
using things like filter.
Then again, nothing is
perfect in this world,
so not everything can be Python.
Without further ado, I'll see
you in the very next video.